So now we know how to take a
look at the attributes of our
data layers. Let's take a look
at the properties and to do this
we're going to click on the
layer of our choosing, then
right click and go down to
properties
and here it brings up this pop
up box with all the different
properties that we can look at.
So we have all the tabs here on
the left
and looking in general to start
with, this is where you could
change the name of your data
layer.
You could also do this though by
shutting this box
and then clicking once on a
selected data layer
and then you can change the name
in here. So we're going to name
this one Biomonitoring points.
It's good practise to rename
your data layers to make them
easy to read and know what
you're working with.
We'll go back into the
properties now by right clicking
and going back down to
properties.
And now we'll take a look at the
metadata of this data layer by
choosing the Metadata tab here.
And if we scroll down, we can
see that this data layer doesn't
have any metadata yet.
If we wanted to add metadata
though, we can go into this box
at the top and click on the drop
down arrow. Now we can choose
the top option 'layer has its
own metadata'.
It's really important to add
metadata to your data layers if
you're going to be sharing them.
This way, the person or people
that you share the data layer
with is going to be able to know
what the data is representing.
So here we're going to add some
metadata. We've added a title of
'Biomonitoring Points' and now
we're going to add a summary of
our data layer
and we'll also add a
description.
And then in credits we can write
in who has collected or created
the data layer.
And in use limitations, we can
add any limitations that we have
in our data set. So for example,
we could write that this data
was collected in the wet season
and so they don't represent the
dry season.
So now if we were to send this
data layer to someone and they
don't know what the points
represent, they can go in and
check the metadata and get this
information.
Another thing that we can look
out within our layer properties
is what coordinate system our
data layer was collected or
created in. To do this we want
to click on Source on the left
hand side
and then click on Spatial
Reference
and here we can see that our
data was collected in the
Geographic Coordinate system WGS
1984.
Knowing this information is
really important. As we can see
this is in a geographic
coordinate system, and so if we
wanted to use it on our map
accurately and for analysis,
then we'd need to project this
data layer.
And so that's how to look at the
properties of the layers and
some of the useful things that
you can look at within the
properties.